Pihole integration (#544)
DataDog/integrations-extras: pihole/README.md

# Agent Check: pihole

## Overview

This check monitors [Pi-hole][1] through the Datadog Agent.

## Setup

Follow the instructions below to install and configure this check for an Agent running on a host. For containerized environments, see the [Autodiscovery Integration Templates][2] for guidance on applying these instructions.

### Installation

To install the Pi-hole check on your host:

1. Install the [developer toolkit](https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/integrations/new_check_howto/#developer-toolkit) on any machine.
2. Run `ddev release build pihole` to build the package.
3. [Download the Datadog Agent](https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent).

> 4. Upload the build artifact to any host with an Agent andrun `datadog-agent integration install -w path/to/pihole/dist/<ARTIFACT_NAME>.whl`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Upload the build artifact to any host with an Agent and run `datadog-agent integration install -w path/to/pihole/dist/<ARTIFACT_NAME>.whl`.
```

Author: 👍

# Agent Check: pihole

## Overview

> This check monitors [pihole][1] through the Datadog Agent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This check monitors [Pi-hole][1] through the Datadog Agent.
```

## Setup

Follow the instructions below to install and configure this check for an Agent running on a host. For containerized environments, see the [Autodiscovery Integration Templates][2] for guidance on applying these instructions.

### Installation

> To install the pihole check on your host:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To install the Pi-hole check on your host:
```

1. Install the [developer toolkit](https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/integrations/new_check_howto/#developer-toolkit) on any machine.
2. Run `ddev release build pihole` to build the package.
3. [Download the Datadog Agent](https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent).
4. Upload the build artifact to any host with an Agent andrun `datadog-agent integration install -w path/to/pihole/dist/<ARTIFACT_NAME>.whl`.

### Configuration

> 1. Edit the `pihole.d/conf.yaml` file, in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your Agent's configuration directory to start collecting your pihole performance data. See the [sample pihole.d/conf.yaml][3] for all available configuration options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Edit the `pihole.d/conf.yaml` file, in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your Agent's configuration directory to start collecting your Pi-hole performance data. See the [sample pihole.d/conf.yaml][3] for all available configuration options.
```

2. [Restart the Agent][4].

### Validation

[Run the Agent's status subcommand][5] and look for `pihole` under the Checks section.

## Available metrics
* Queries forwarded
* Domains being blocked
* Ads percentage today
* Ads blocked today
* DNS queries today
* Total clients
* Unique clients
* Queries cached
* Unique Domains
* Top Queries
* Top Ads
* Top clients
* Forward destinations
* Query type
* Reply type
* DNS queries by host

### Metrics

See [metadata.csv][6] for a list of metrics provided by this check.

### Service Checks

> pihole does not include any service checks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pi-hole does not include any service checks.
```

### Events

> pihole does not include any events.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pi-hole does not include any events.
```

## Overview

This check monitors [Pi-hole][1] through the Datadog Agent.

## Setup

Follow the instructions below to install and configure this check for an Agent running on a host. For containerized environments, see the [Autodiscovery Integration Templates][2] for guidance on applying these instructions.

### Installation

To install the Pi-hole check on your host:

1. Install the [developer toolkit](https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/integrations/new_check_howto/#developer-toolkit) on any machine.
2. Run `ddev release build pihole` to build the package.
3. [Download the Datadog Agent](https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent).
4. Upload the build artifact to any host with an Agent andrun `datadog-agent integration install -w path/to/pihole/dist/<ARTIFACT_NAME>.whl`.

### Configuration

1. Edit the `pihole.d/conf.yaml` file, in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your Agent's configuration directory to start collecting your Pi-hole performance data. See the [sample pihole.d/conf.yaml][3] for all available configuration options.

2. [Restart the Agent][4].

### Validation

[Run the Agent's status subcommand][5] and look for `pihole` under the Checks section.

> ## Available metrics

Reviewer 3: Move this under Metrics section

> * Queries forwarded

Reviewer 3: Just reference the metadata.csv file

* Domains being blocked
* Ads percentage today
* Ads blocked today
* DNS queries today
* Total clients
* Unique clients
* Queries cached
* Unique Domains
* Top Queries
* Top Ads
* Top clients
* Forward destinations
* Query type
* Reply type
* DNS queries by host

### Metrics

See [metadata.csv][6] for a list of metrics provided by this check.

### Service Checks

**`pihole.running`**:

Returns `CRITICAL` if the Agent cannot communicate with the target host. Returns `OK` if the connection to Pi-hole is successful.

### Events

Pi-hole does not include any events.

## Troubleshooting

> Need help? Contact [Datadog support][7].

Reviewer 3: Not for extras. Remove this section

> [1]: **LINK_TO_INTEGRATION_SITE**

Reviewer 3: Link to integration site?
